---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# veDCAST & veDCASTLP

### Locking mechanism

To take full advantage of the d>sponsor protocol, users must commit their DCAST tokens according to the [veTokenomics](https://www.coingecko.com/learn/vetokens-and-vetokenomics) model. This approach involves locking DCAST tokens for a certain period of time or locking liquidity by exchanging DCAST tokens for USDC tokens (_LP tokens from a specific Balancer pool, B-80DCAST-20USDC_).

* The locking period may not exceed 2 years (104 weeks). Tokens can be re-locked at any time for a longer period of time for better benefits.
* Locking DCAST tokens results in the issuance of veDCAST tokens
  * 1 veDCAST is distributed for one week of locking a DCAST token
* Locking B-DCAST-USDC tokens results in the issuance of veDCASTLP tokens
  * 1 veDCASTLP is distributed for one week of locking a LP token
* The number of veTOKEN held decreases linearly as the lock period decreases.

### Reward distribution&#x20;

By staking DCAST (or B-DCAST-USDC) tokens, veDCAST (or veDCASTLP) holders receive a share of the [revenue generated by the protocol](../../fees-collected.md). This monthly revenue share is tied to the veTOKEN balance recorded at the beginning of the month.

{% content-ref url="rewards.md" %}
[rewards.md](rewards.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

### Protocol governance&#x20;

The veDCAST and veDCASTLP tokens confer decision-making power, giving community members a voice in strategic direction. This power is proportional to the number of veTOKENs held.

{% content-ref url="governance.md" %}
[governance.md](governance.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

### Future benefits

In addition to the current benefits, the locking of DCAST tokens will be used for future features to be integrated into the DCAST project.

